Accompanying SWOS++ version: 1.9.2.1

DISCLAIMER:

This is an incomplete version meant to be used for testing. It contains bugs
and deficiencies, and should not be considered a final product. Same goes for
this document :)

NETPLAY GUIDE:

SWOS++ uses DOSBox and it's ipxnet program to establish a network connection
over UDP channel. There are few steps to take before successfully playing a
network game:

0) Install SWOS++

   Install SWOS++ as usual if not already installed. Refer to readme.txt for
   more detailed instructions.

1) Verify your DOSBox configuration file

  You have to turn on IPX emulation in configuration file, since it is off by
  default. Under [ipx] section there should be a line:

  ipx=true

  If that line is commented (starts with a #) remove #. If it is missing add
  it. Restart DOSBox if it was already running.

2) Verify port and connection

   In order to join games you will have to be able to connect to UDP port 213
   (or whatever was server configured to). In order to host games, you need to
   be able to accept incoming connections. Port forwarding goes beyond the
   scope of this document, but a good resource on how to do it is
   www.portforward.com.

3) Start IPXNet server/client

   One of players has to start IPXNet server in their DOSBox using command:

   ipxnet startserver

   Optionally you can type port number at the end, if something other than
   port 213 is needed. Other player then connects using command:

   ipxnet connect <server ip>

   Optionally, port can be typed at the end, if it's not default.
   Once connected, you can verify that everything is in order by issuing:

   ipxnet ping

4) Set up the network game

   After running SWOS with SWOS++ correctly installed, multiplayer entry will
   show up in SWOS++ menu. There you will have to fill in nickname for network
   play or one will be created for you. Host has to fill a game name, and go
   to 'CREATE GAME'. This will bring up game lobby menu. Host is free to set up
   game configuration here. Client goes to 'JOIN GAME'. There they should be
   able to see game that was created, and join it. Both players have to select
   their team in the 'TEAMS' column. After both players signal that they're
   ready, host is allowed to start the game.

5) Set up teams

   Now players go into standard play match menu, where they set up their teams
   similar to local game. Player 1 gets controls to set up their team (usually
   host), presses play game when done then other player takes over. Once they
   too select play game actual game starts. Enjoy!

Debug version has negative impact on performance, but it will generate log file
in SWOS directory named 'swospp.log'. It is a valuable aid for debugging.
Please include it if you wish to report a bug.

SKIP FRAMES:

Game host can set value for skip frames variable. This value influences game
network performance, and is directly related to players geographic locations.
Higher value will allow game to run smoother, but will make controls lag more.
It should be set to lowest value that still makes game runs fast enough.

TESTING:

Need to test various situations, like yellow/red cards, own goals,
substitutes, repeated games, menu entries...

Anything strange happening?
Fan colors swapped?
Strange results displaying for watchers in games with many scorers?
Controls not responding properly?
Goalkeeper not doing his job well? :P
Is it possible to reach some menu entries when they shouldn't be accessible?

Game working slowly (whole time)?
Game slows down at certain times (or in certain situations)?

Does multiplayer game interferes with normal games played later?

Any differences from single player version?
Care has been taken to ensure game play is as much similar as possible to
locally played version but some small differences had to be made to be certain
everything goes as smoothly as possible.

THINGS TO NOTE:

- Your DOSBox version and settings (dosbox.conf, cycles=? etc.)
- SWOS++ version (can be seen in SWOS++ -> ABOUT menu)
- What are you playing with (control configuration)? (keyboard only,
  keyboard + joypad etc.)
- Teams playing
- Number of games played
- Log file, named SWOSPP.LOG
- Anything you can think of :)

BUGS FOUND:

If you think you found a bug, please record as much informations about it as
possible. Ideally a log file and game replay, with steps to reproduce.

Which half was it? Which minute was it? (approximately)

What was happening in the game:
- "I was about to take throw-in"
- "It crashed on halftime transition"
- "Goalkeeper was holding the ball"
etc.

Screenshots are welcome too :)

Outcome:
Crash, assertion failed message, team data mismatch
DOSBox Status Window - illegal reads/writes etc.

NOTES/KNOWN ISSUES:

- Fire doesn't cancel pause or statistics screen.
- Auto-save game is currently not supported.
- Currently no notifications about network activity so it might seem like game
  froze if network lags
- Watchers support is nearly complete - only sounds are missing
- Pitch type selection in game lobby does not work correctly
- Changing teams after joining lobby might not work correctly
- Surely more but focus on the good sides please :)